### Part 3: Choosing teams  
#### A description of how you formulated the search problem:  
1. State space -   
   Any arrangement of groups of students where each student is present and in one and only one team where a team can be of size 1,2 or 3.  

2. Successor function -   
   Staring with a group arrangement where each student is assigned to a group of size 3 where the other two members of the team are '-'   
   i.e. not present/assigned.  
   So there are n groups where n is the number of students with one team member(student) in each team.  
   Successors are generated by selecting all pair-wise teams and forming all valid combinations of each pair by exchanging a student between these pairs and combining the new teams formed with the existing teams minus old teams to get one successor.    
   Thus, successors of each state will be formed by exchanging students among teams such that all students are present only once in one and only one team.   
   Here one student is added / removed or no exchange happens based on if cost is minimized.  
   Valid successors contain all students only once in only one team.  
   Only the **minimum cost successors** are used and further combined in similar way to get next successors.  

3. Goal state:   
   Goal state is an arrangement of teams where each student belongs to at least and at most one team.   
   The cost to create such arrangement should be as low as possible.  

4. Cost function:   
   Formation of one permutation of team arrangement with one exchange of students will have a cost of 1.  

5. Heuristic Function:   
   A successor which has less cost than the predecessor is chosen, considering it will lead to minimum cost solution.

6. Initial State:  
   An arrangement of teams such that each student has his team consisting of only the student. Thus, there will be n teams where n is the number of students with each team consisting of only 1 student and one student should appear in one and only one team.  

#### A brief description of how your search algorithm works;  
The goal is to form teams of students such that the maximum team size is 3 and each student is part of one and only one team.  
The teams should be formed with the intention of keeping the cost to form the team arrangement as low as possible.  
Cost consists of 4 components:   
i. Cost of 5 is assigned for checking submission of each team. So for n teams the cost is 5*n   
ii. Cost of 10 is assigned when a student has to work with another student who he does not wish to work with.   
Hence, if there are m such students, the cost is m*10.   
iii. Cost of 2 is assigned if a student does not get the group size he requested for.   
Hence, if there are k such students, the cost is k*2.   
vi. Cost of 3 is assigned to students who did not receive the teammates they requested for.   
Total cost in this case is 5*n + 10*m + 2*k + 3*l.    
The goal is to minimize this cost.  

Staring with a group arrangement where each student is assigned to a group of size 3 where the other two members of the team are '-'  
i.e. not present/assigned.  
So there are n groups where n is the number of students with one team member(student) in each team.  
Successors are generated by selecting all pair-wise teams and forming all valid combinations of each pair by exchanging a student between these pairs and combining the new teams formed with the existing teams minus old teams to get one successor.  
Thus, successors of each state will be formed by exchanging students among teams such that all students are present only once in one and only one team.  
Valid successors contain all students only once in only one team.  
Among all the successors generated only minimum cost successor/successors are used for further processing.  
These minimum cost successors will then be permuted and grouped in a similar way to generate the next successor.   
Thus, minimum cost successor is searched locally and used.   
This is done until the cost does not change for a fixed number of iterations.  

#### Discussion of any problems you faced, any assumptions,simplifications, and/or design decisions you made.  
I started with a brute force approach by generating all possible combination of arrangements of groups of students and getting the arrangement with least cost.   
It worked for less number of students but didn't finish within time threshold for higher number of students specifically for test2.txt file with 13 students.  
For this the challenge faced was how to generate all permutations. For that I learnt about itertools.  
I had to think of several hacks like generating permutations of list and combining adjacent elements using ziplongest of 3 consecutive elements.  
  
To make this faster, I first thought of using the conditions like heuristic to reduce the successor space.  
So, first priority was given to make sure students don't work with students they do not wish to work as that would cost the most.   
Then creating a team of 3 people even if the student requests for 2 or 1 to reduce the number of teams and hence the time to correct each submission.   
Third priority would be to assign students who want to work with each other and lastly the preferred group for the student.   
The cost can vary with several combinations like if 3 students are assigned to a group the cost is less by 5 compared to two groups.   
But if each of those students don't want a group of three, the cost will increase by 6. So net cost will increase by 1.  
So I decided to concentrate on first and second priority and test. I coded this approach to see if the computation speed increases and I can find a solution within time threshold.  
But, I still couldn't find the solution within time threshold.  
  
So I decided on dropping the top-down approach as it involved too many arrangements.  
I thought of starting with 1 student and generating all combinations of 1, 2, and 3 with other students to form the groups.  
Use the minimum cost group as successor. So the students in the successor will be added to team.    
The remaining students are then  added in a similar way by generating different arrangements and then selecting the least cost one.   
and the process repeats. This did not give the correct answer as all valid combinations were not considered in each iteration.  
  
Next, to consider all combinations of the given teams arrangement,   
Started with all students in individual groups of one.   
Created all permutations of these groups by exchanging the students from one group into another and selected the minimum cost successor from all valid successors.   
That is the team arrangements where have all students present exactly ones in a team.  
Amongst all the successors generated only minimum cost successor/successors are used for further processing.  
Considered the assumption/heuristic that successor which has less cost than the predecessor will lead to minimum cost solution.  
These minimum cost successors will then be combined in a similar way to generate the next successor with the constraint of max team size being 3.   
Thus, minimum cost successor is searched locally.  
  
Finding all successors/permutations was the most challenging part.  
Also removing duplicates reduced the number of successors considerably.    
Used a visited list to avoid repeated computation.  
For coding, most of the time was spent to understand how to form all valid successor team arrangements for a given successor and reduce the number of computations.  